README.rst, before:

================================================================================
pyexcel - Let you focus on data, instead of file formats
================================================================================

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.github.io/master/images/patreon.png
   :target: https://www.patreon.com/pyexcel

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/pyexcel/pyexcel.svg?branch=master
   :target: http://travis-ci.org/pyexcel/pyexcel

.. image:: https://codecov.io/github/pyexcel/pyexcel/coverage.png
   :target: https://codecov.io/github/pyexcel/pyexcel

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/pyexcel/badge/?version=latest
   :target: http://pyexcel.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

Known constraints
==================

Fonts, colors and charts are not supported.


Feature Highlights
===================

1. One API to handle multiple data sources:

   * physical file
   * memory file
   * SQLAlchemy table
   * Django Model
   * Python data stuctures: dictionary, records and array
2. One application programming interface(API) to read and write data in various excel file formats.


Available Plugins
=================

.. _file-format-list:
.. _a-map-of-plugins-and-file-formats:

.. table:: A list of file formats supported by external plugins

   ======================== ======================= =============== ==================
   Package name              Supported file formats  Dependencies   Python versions
   ======================== ======================= =============== ==================
   `pyexcel-io`_            csv, csvz [#f1]_, tsv,                  2.6, 2.7, 3.3,
                            tsvz [#f2]_                             3.4, 3.5, 3.6
                                                                    pypy
   `pyexcel-xls`_           xls, xlsx(read only),   `xlrd`_,        same as above
                            xlsm(read only)         `xlwt`_
   `pyexcel-xlsx`_          xlsx                    `openpyxl`_     same as above
   `pyexcel-xlsxw`_         xlsx(write only)        `XlsxWriter`_   same as above
   `pyexcel-ods3`_          ods                     `ezodf`_,       2.6, 2.7, 3.3, 3.4
                                                    lxml            3.5, 3.6
   `pyexcel-ods`_           ods                     `odfpy`_        same as above
   `pyexcel-odsr`_          ods(read only)          lxml            same as above
   `pyexcel-text`_          (write only)json, rst,  `tabulate`_     2.6, 2.7, 3.3, 3.4
                            mediawiki, html,                        3.5, pypy, pypy3
                            latex, grid, pipe,
                            orgtbl, plain simple
   `pyexcel-handsontable`_  handsontable in html    `handsontable`_ same as above [#f3]
   `pyexcel-pygal`_         svg chart               `pygal`_        same as above [#f3]
   ======================== ======================= =============== ==================

.. _pyexcel-io: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-io
.. _pyexcel-xls: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xls
.. _pyexcel-xlsx: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsx
.. _pyexcel-ods: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ods
.. _pyexcel-ods3: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ods3
.. _pyexcel-odsr: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-odsr
.. _pyexcel-xlsxw: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsxw

.. _xlrd: https://github.com/python-excel/xlrd
.. _xlwt: https://github.com/python-excel/xlwt
.. _openpyxl: https://bitbucket.org/openpyxl/openpyxl
.. _XlsxWriter: https://github.com/jmcnamara/XlsxWriter
.. _ezodf: https://github.com/T0ha/ezodf
.. _odfpy: https://github.com/eea/odfpy

.. _pyexcel-text: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-text
.. _tabulate: https://bitbucket.org/astanin/python-tabulate
.. _pyexcel-handsontable: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-handsontable
.. _handsontable: https://cdnjs.com/libraries/handsontable
.. _pyexcel-chart: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-chart
.. _pygal: https://github.com/Kozea/pygal
.. _pyexcel-matplotlib: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-matplotlib
.. _matplotlib: https://matplotlib.org

.. [#f3]: coming soon

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] zipped csv file
.. [#f2] zipped tsv file




Installation
================================================================================
You can install it via pip:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install pyexcel


or clone it and install it:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.git
    $ cd pyexcel
    $ python setup.py install



Usage
===============

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import pyexcel
    >>> content = "1,2,3\n3,4,5"
    >>> sheet = pyexcel.Sheet()
    >>> sheet.csv = content
    >>> sheet.array
    [[1, 2, 3], [3, 4, 5]]
    >>> with open("myfile.xlsx", "wb") as output:
    ...     write_count_not_used = output.write(sheet.xlsx)



Suppose you have the following data in a dictionary:

========= ====
Name      Age
========= ====
Adam      28
Beatrice  29
Ceri      30
Dean      26
========= ====

you can easily save it into an excel file, using the following code.

.. code-block:: python

   >>> import pyexcel
   >>> # make sure you had pyexcel-xls installed
   >>> a_list_of_dictionaries = [
   ...     {
   ...         "Name": 'Adam',
   ...         "Age": 28
   ...     },
   ...     {
   ...         "Name": 'Beatrice',
   ...         "Age": 29
   ...     },
   ...     {
   ...         "Name": 'Ceri',
   ...         "Age": 30
   ...     },
   ...     {
   ...         "Name": 'Dean',
   ...         "Age": 26
   ...     }
   ... ]
   >>> pyexcel.save_as(records=a_list_of_dictionaries, dest_file_name="your_file.xls")


Here are the method to obtain the records:

.. code-block:: python
   
   >>> import pyexcel as pe
   >>> records = pe.iget_records(file_name="your_file.xls")
   >>> for record in records:
   ...     print("%s is aged at %d" % (record['Name'], record['Age']))
   Adam is aged at 28
   Beatrice is aged at 29
   Ceri is aged at 30
   Dean is aged at 26


Acknowledgement
===============

All great work have done by odf, ezodf, xlrd, xlwt, tabulate and other individual developers. This library unites only the data access code.


.. testcode::
   :hide:
   
   >>> import os
   >>> os.unlink("your_file.xls")
   >>> os.unlink("myfile.xlsx")


Support the project
================================================================================

If your company has embedded pyexcel and its components into a revenue generating
product, please `support me on patreon <https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=5537627>`_ to
maintain the project and develop it further.

If you are an individual, you are welcome to support me too on patreon and for however long
you feel like to. As a patreon, you will receive
`early access to pyexcel related contents <https://www.patreon.com/pyexcel/posts>`_.

With your financial support, I will be able to invest
a little bit more time in coding, documentation and writing interesting posts.


Development guide
================================================================================

Development steps for code changes

#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.git
#. cd pyexcel

Upgrade your setup tools and pip. They are needed for development and testing only:

#. pip install --upgrade setuptools pip

Then install relevant development requirements:

#. pip install -r rnd_requirements.txt # if such a file exists
#. pip install -r requirements.txt
#. pip install -r tests/requirements.txt


In order to update test environment, and documentation, additional steps are
required:

#. pip install moban
#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-commons.git commons
#. make your changes in `.moban.d` directory, then issue command `moban`

What is rnd_requirements.txt
-------------------------------

Usually, it is created when a dependent library is not released. Once the dependecy is installed(will be released), the future version of the dependency in the requirements.txt will be valid.

What is pyexcel-commons
---------------------------------

Many information that are shared across pyexcel projects, such as: this developer guide, license info, etc. are stored in `pyexcel-commons` project.

What is .moban.d
---------------------------------

`.moban.d` stores the specific meta data for the library.

How to test your contribution
------------------------------

Although `nose` and `doctest` are both used in code testing, it is adviable that unit tests are put in tests. `doctest` is incorporated only to make sure the code examples in documentation remain valid across different development releases.

On Linux/Unix systems, please launch your tests like this::

    $ make

On Windows systems, please issue this command::

    > test.bat


License
================================================================================

New BSD License

Commit message:

plugin management and re-order the documents

README.rst, after:

================================================================================
pyexcel - Let you focus on data, instead of file formats
================================================================================

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.github.io/master/images/patreon.png
   :target: https://www.patreon.com/pyexcel

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/pyexcel/pyexcel.svg?branch=master
   :target: http://travis-ci.org/pyexcel/pyexcel

.. image:: https://codecov.io/github/pyexcel/pyexcel/coverage.png
   :target: https://codecov.io/github/pyexcel/pyexcel

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/pyexcel/badge/?version=latest
   :target: http://pyexcel.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

Known constraints
==================

Fonts, colors and charts are not supported.


Feature Highlights
===================

1. One API to handle multiple data sources:

   * physical file
   * memory file
   * SQLAlchemy table
   * Django Model
   * Python data stuctures: dictionary, records and array
2. One application programming interface(API) to read and write data in various excel file formats.


Available Plugins
=================

.. _file-format-list:
.. _a-map-of-plugins-and-file-formats:

.. table:: A list of file formats supported by external plugins

   ======================== ======================= =============== ==================
   Package name              Supported file formats  Dependencies   Python versions
   ======================== ======================= =============== ==================
   `pyexcel-io`_            csv, csvz [#f1]_, tsv,                  2.6, 2.7, 3.3,
                            tsvz [#f2]_                             3.4, 3.5, 3.6
                                                                    pypy
   `pyexcel-xls`_           xls, xlsx(read only),   `xlrd`_,        same as above
                            xlsm(read only)         `xlwt`_
   `pyexcel-xlsx`_          xlsx                    `openpyxl`_     same as above
   `pyexcel-xlsxw`_         xlsx(write only)        `XlsxWriter`_   same as above
   `pyexcel-ods3`_          ods                     `ezodf`_,       2.6, 2.7, 3.3, 3.4
                                                    lxml            3.5, 3.6
   `pyexcel-ods`_           ods                     `odfpy`_        same as above
   `pyexcel-odsr`_          ods(read only)          lxml            same as above
   `pyexcel-text`_          (write only)json, rst,  `tabulate`_     2.6, 2.7, 3.3, 3.4
                            mediawiki, html,                        3.5, pypy, pypy3
                            latex, grid, pipe,
                            orgtbl, plain simple
   `pyexcel-handsontable`_  handsontable in html    `handsontable`_ same as above [#f3]
   `pyexcel-pygal`_         svg chart               `pygal`_        same as above [#f3]
   ======================== ======================= =============== ==================

.. _pyexcel-io: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-io
.. _pyexcel-xls: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xls
.. _pyexcel-xlsx: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsx
.. _pyexcel-ods: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ods
.. _pyexcel-ods3: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-ods3
.. _pyexcel-odsr: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-odsr
.. _pyexcel-xlsxw: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-xlsxw

.. _xlrd: https://github.com/python-excel/xlrd
.. _xlwt: https://github.com/python-excel/xlwt
.. _openpyxl: https://bitbucket.org/openpyxl/openpyxl
.. _XlsxWriter: https://github.com/jmcnamara/XlsxWriter
.. _ezodf: https://github.com/T0ha/ezodf
.. _odfpy: https://github.com/eea/odfpy

.. _pyexcel-text: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-text
.. _tabulate: https://bitbucket.org/astanin/python-tabulate
.. _pyexcel-handsontable: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-handsontable
.. _handsontable: https://cdnjs.com/libraries/handsontable
.. _pyexcel-pygal: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-chart
.. _pygal: https://github.com/Kozea/pygal
.. _pyexcel-matplotlib: https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-matplotlib
.. _matplotlib: https://matplotlib.org

.. [#f3] coming soon

In order to manage the list of plugins installed, you need to use pip to add or remove
a plugin. When you use virtualenv, you can have different plugins per virtual
environment. In the situation where you have multiple plugins that does the same thing
in your environment, you need to tell pyexcel which plugin to use per function call.
For example, pyexcel-ods and pyexcel-odsr, and you want to get_array to use pyexcel-odsr.
You need to append get_array(..., library='pyexcel-odsr').

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] zipped csv file
.. [#f2] zipped tsv file




Installation
================================================================================
You can install it via pip:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install pyexcel


or clone it and install it:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.git
    $ cd pyexcel
    $ python setup.py install



Usage
===============

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import pyexcel
    >>> content = "1,2,3\n3,4,5"
    >>> sheet = pyexcel.Sheet()
    >>> sheet.csv = content
    >>> sheet.array
    [[1, 2, 3], [3, 4, 5]]
    >>> with open("myfile.xlsx", "wb") as output:
    ...     write_count_not_used = output.write(sheet.xlsx)



Suppose you have the following data in a dictionary:

========= ====
Name      Age
========= ====
Adam      28
Beatrice  29
Ceri      30
Dean      26
========= ====

you can easily save it into an excel file, using the following code.

.. code-block:: python

   >>> import pyexcel
   >>> # make sure you had pyexcel-xls installed
   >>> a_list_of_dictionaries = [
   ...     {
   ...         "Name": 'Adam',
   ...         "Age": 28
   ...     },
   ...     {
   ...         "Name": 'Beatrice',
   ...         "Age": 29
   ...     },
   ...     {
   ...         "Name": 'Ceri',
   ...         "Age": 30
   ...     },
   ...     {
   ...         "Name": 'Dean',
   ...         "Age": 26
   ...     }
   ... ]
   >>> pyexcel.save_as(records=a_list_of_dictionaries, dest_file_name="your_file.xls")


Here are the method to obtain the records:

.. code-block:: python
   
   >>> import pyexcel as pe
   >>> records = pe.iget_records(file_name="your_file.xls")
   >>> for record in records:
   ...     print("%s is aged at %d" % (record['Name'], record['Age']))
   Adam is aged at 28
   Beatrice is aged at 29
   Ceri is aged at 30
   Dean is aged at 26


Acknowledgement
===============

All great work have done by odf, ezodf, xlrd, xlwt, tabulate and other individual developers. This library unites only the data access code.


.. testcode::
   :hide:
   
   >>> import os
   >>> os.unlink("your_file.xls")
   >>> os.unlink("myfile.xlsx")


Support the project
================================================================================

If your company has embedded pyexcel and its components into a revenue generating
product, please `support me on patreon <https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=5537627>`_ to
maintain the project and develop it further.

If you are an individual, you are welcome to support me too on patreon and for however long
you feel like to. As a patreon, you will receive
`early access to pyexcel related contents <https://www.patreon.com/pyexcel/posts>`_.

With your financial support, I will be able to invest
a little bit more time in coding, documentation and writing interesting posts.


Development guide
================================================================================

Development steps for code changes

#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.git
#. cd pyexcel

Upgrade your setup tools and pip. They are needed for development and testing only:

#. pip install --upgrade setuptools pip

Then install relevant development requirements:

#. pip install -r rnd_requirements.txt # if such a file exists
#. pip install -r requirements.txt
#. pip install -r tests/requirements.txt


In order to update test environment, and documentation, additional steps are
required:

#. pip install moban
#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-commons.git commons
#. make your changes in `.moban.d` directory, then issue command `moban`

What is rnd_requirements.txt
-------------------------------

Usually, it is created when a dependent library is not released. Once the dependecy is installed(will be released), the future version of the dependency in the requirements.txt will be valid.

What is pyexcel-commons
---------------------------------

Many information that are shared across pyexcel projects, such as: this developer guide, license info, etc. are stored in `pyexcel-commons` project.

What is .moban.d
---------------------------------

`.moban.d` stores the specific meta data for the library.

How to test your contribution
------------------------------

Although `nose` and `doctest` are both used in code testing, it is adviable that unit tests are put in tests. `doctest` is incorporated only to make sure the code examples in documentation remain valid across different development releases.

On Linux/Unix systems, please launch your tests like this::

    $ make

On Windows systems, please issue this command::

    > test.bat


License
================================================================================

New BSD License
