docs/source/guide.rst, before:

Developer's guide
=================

Development steps for code changes

#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.git
#. cd pyexcel

Upgrade your setup tools and pip. They are needed for development and testing only:

#. pip install --upgrade setuptools pip

Then install relevant development requirements:

#. pip install -r rnd_requirements.txt # if such a file exists
#. pip install -r requirements.txt
#. pip install -r tests/requirements.txt

Once you have finished your changes, please provide test case(s), relevant documentation
and update CHANGELOG.rst.

.. note::

    As to rnd_requirements.txt, usually, it is created when a dependent
	library is not released. Once the dependecy is installed
	(will be released), the future
	version of the dependency in the requirements.txt will be valid.


How to test your contribution
------------------------------

Although `nose` and `doctest` are both used in code testing, it is adviable that unit tests are put in tests. `doctest` is incorporated only to make sure the code examples in documentation remain valid across different development releases.

On Linux/Unix systems, please launch your tests like this::

    $ make

On Windows systems, please issue this command::

    > test.bat

How to update test environment and update documentation
---------------------------------------------------------

Additional steps are required:

#. pip install moban
#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-commons.git commons
#. make your changes in `.moban.d` directory, then issue command `moban`

What is pyexcel-commons
---------------------------------

Many information that are shared across pyexcel projects, such as: this developer guide, license info, etc. are stored in `pyexcel-commons` project.

What is .moban.d
---------------------------------

`.moban.d` stores the specific meta data for the library.

Acceptance criteria
-------------------

#. Has Test cases written
#. Has all code lines tested
#. Passes all Travis CI builds
#. Has fair amount of documentation if your change is complex
#. Agree on NEW BSD License for your contribution

Commit message:

:books: update documentation and show off pyexcel-odsr v0.4.1 which brings fods support. Thanks go to @jonadem

docs/source/guide.rst, after:

Developer's guide
=================

Development steps for code changes

#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel.git
#. cd pyexcel

Upgrade your setup tools and pip. They are needed for development and testing only:

#. pip install --upgrade setuptools pip

Then install relevant development requirements:

#. pip install -r rnd_requirements.txt # if such a file exists
#. pip install -r requirements.txt
#. pip install -r tests/requirements.txt

Once you have finished your changes, please provide test case(s), relevant documentation
and update CHANGELOG.rst.

.. note::

    As to rnd_requirements.txt, usually, it is created when a dependent
    library is not released. Once the dependecy is installed
    (will be released), the future
    version of the dependency in the requirements.txt will be valid.


How to test your contribution
------------------------------

Although `nose` and `doctest` are both used in code testing, it is adviable that unit tests are put in tests. `doctest` is incorporated only to make sure the code examples in documentation remain valid across different development releases.

On Linux/Unix systems, please launch your tests like this::

    $ make

On Windows systems, please issue this command::

    > test.bat

How to update test environment and update documentation
---------------------------------------------------------

Additional steps are required:

#. pip install moban
#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/setupmobans.git # generic setup
#. git clone https://github.com/pyexcel/pyexcel-commons.git commons
#. make your changes in `.moban.d` directory, then issue command `moban`

What is pyexcel-commons
---------------------------------

Many information that are shared across pyexcel projects, such as: this developer guide, license info, etc. are stored in `pyexcel-commons` project.

What is .moban.d
---------------------------------

`.moban.d` stores the specific meta data for the library.

Acceptance criteria
-------------------

#. Has Test cases written
#. Has all code lines tested
#. Passes all Travis CI builds
#. Has fair amount of documentation if your change is complex
#. Please update CHANGELOG.rst
#. Please add yourself to CONTRIBUTORS.rst
#. Agree on NEW BSD License for your contribution
